-------LINUX COMMAND--------

ls- listing of files and directories.
ll- long listing of files and directories.
touch- creating a file.
mkdir- creating a directory.
cp- copy a file and directory/ rename a file and directory.
mv- move a file and direcory/rename a file and directory.
pwd- current working directory.
cd- change directory.
cat- show content of a file.
more- show the content line by line by enter key and page by page by downkey downward. it can't go upward.
less- show the content line by line by downward and upward.
head- show first default 10 lines. 
tail- show last default 10 lines.
vi- it is a text editor.
vim- it is advance text editor.
nano- it also a text editor.
grep(global regular expression)- to search pattern from a file.
   -i- ignore case sensetive
   -v- ignore that search word
   -w- print exact search word.
   -c- count that search word.
   -n- which no. that search word is present.
   -A(n)- print no. of words below that search word.
   -B(n)- print no. of words above that search word.
   -C(n)- print no. of words both above & below that search word.
echo - print a massage.
who- show loggedin user.
whoami- show current user.
which- to know the path of commands.
rm -rf- remove files/directories.
rmdir- remove empty folder.
man- show command manual.
clear- clear screen.
--help- show command options manual.
history- to show history.
tar -cvf- to create archieve files.
tar -xvf- to extract archieve file.
tar -tvf- to view archieve files.
zip- compress zip type file.
unzip- uncompress file.
ln -s- to create a softlink file.
ln - to create a hardlink file.
useradd/adduser- to create an user.
groupadd- to create a group.
usermod- modification to a user/group.
/etc/passwd- users informations.
/etc/group- group informations.
passwd- change passwd of an users.
/etc/shadow- users password info.
find- to find a file/folder.
systemctl- to start/stop/enable/disable a sevice.
journalctl- to troubleshoot or find error.
sed- to replace a old pattern to new pattern from an outside of a file.
chmod- change a file permission.
df -h- memory info.
yum/dnf- to install a package.
curl- to download though urls.
wget- to download fron internet.
